---
title: "What Is Chroma?"
permalink: /
excerpt: "A quick overview of the asset"
layout: single
---

<!--
**<span style="font-size:larger;">[Full documentation online](https://chroma.dustyroom.com)</span>**
{: .notice--info}
-->

<!--
Important!
{: .notice--danger}
-->

## Brief Overview

Chroma is a custom shader UI for Unity that allows you to create beautiful, high-performance, and highly customizable effects with minimum
effort. The most important featue of Chroma is the ability to add *gradients* and *curves* to any shader as parameters - a feature that is not
available in the default UI. This allows you to create effects that are much more visually appealing and dynamic than what is possible with
the default UI. Moreover, with Chroma you can highly customize any Material Inspector to make it more intuitive and user-friendly by adding
things like tooltips, notes, foldouts, and more.

Some of the features of Chroma include:
- **Gradient and Curve parameters** - Add gradients and curves to any shader as parameters. This allows you to create effects that are much
  more visually appealing and dynamic than what is possible with the default UI.
- **Custom Material Inspector** - Highly customize any Material Inspector to make it more intuitive and user-friendly by adding things like
  tooltips, notes, foldouts, and more.
- **Works with any Render Pipeline**, including built-in render pipeline, URP, HDRP, and even custom Render Pipelines.
- **Supports both Shader Graph and code (CG, HLSL)**, so you can use Chroma with any shader. Chroma also supports Shader Graph's Sub Graphs.
You can even use Chroma with shaders that are not written by you.
- Highly optimized and can be used in production without any performance issues.
- Very easy to use, can be set up in a matter of minutes and is beginner friendly. It's a great tool for artists and programmers who are
just starting to make shaders, or have been doing it for years.

Gradients and curves are an irreplaceable tool in making almost any shader, from simple toon to complex volumetric effects. It is a way to
parametrize colors and numbers in a flexible way, allowing to achieve a vast space of styles and techniques. Moreover, using gradients and
curves separates the shader code from design choices. This allows to create a shader once and then use it in many different ways.

Let's take a sky shader as an example. A traditional approach would be to have a shader with a few parameters, like the color of the sky at
the horizon and the zenith, and the color of the sun. This approach is very limiting, as it is hard to achieve a wide variety of looks with
just a few parameters. A better approach would be to have a gradient that defines the color of the sky at different heights. This way, you
can easily change the look of the sky by changing the gradient. The same goes for the sun color. Instead of having a single color, you can
have a gradient that defines the color of the sun at different angles. This way, you can easily change the look of the sun by changing the
gradient.

One of the highlight features of Chroma is the [Gradient Editor](stylized-lit-shader/#gradient) found in the shaders. In a nutshell, you can have up to 8 independent colors in a single gradient. The combinations of these color stops define the diversity of the material results. You can have a full rainbow (or any other entire palette). And it is possible to vary the blending steepness of the colors within a single gradient (red to orange is stepped and yellow to green is smooth — whatever you can imagine).

And, what’s even more important, is that it is a real-time effect, you don’t have to save any textures: you change the color on the ramp and you immediately see it change.

While working on the materials for the included [Demo scenes](demo-scenes), there were so many interesting things appearing during the parameter tweaking — one move of a color ramp slider completely changed the look of the material. A move of a single _Shading Offset_ parameter of the [Stylized Lit shader](stylized-lit-shader) changed the material to a completely another one, instantly. It was even tough to decide which of these variants looked better. The folders of ‘saved for later’ presets were brimming with widely different materials: ranging from subtly shaded toon surfaces to vibrant unnatural popping-off-screen color palettes. The scenes were painting themselves, and despite the fact that we had to keep only the best results for the demo scenes, so many equally great looking materials were left off. No matter whether you are looking for conventional toon materials, want to add a tiny bit of spice to that look, or are in an experimental mood and are looking to explore uncharted fields — it is all done easily.

Of course, it is very important to have the stylistically fitting models. Particularly, the nature objects, like trees, bushes etc (more on this you’ll find further down this manual). That’s why another highlight feature of Chroma is its foliage generating capabilities. Here you can find everything for an effortless plant creation as well as shading that supports wind.

In addition to the shaders, and post effects, we included the tools used in making the [Demo scenes](demo-scenes). All the foliage models were made with [Foliage Generator](foliage-generator), a flexible tool for creating and modifying anime-looking plants. The stretched wires between the electric poles in the [City](demo-scenes#city-scene) demo scene, for example, are generated and can be modified in the Unity Editor using the [Curve Renderer](curve-renderer) tool.

Chroma is easy to use and is beginner friendly. However, the foliage and cloud generating tools may have a slightly steep learning curve for complete beginners.

## Requirements

  * Unity version **2020.3.0 LTS** or higher.
  * Any Rendering Pipeline is supported: Built-in, URP, HDRP and even custom ones.
    * For the demo scenes, we are using Universal Rendering Pipeline (also known as 'URP'). Please install it from the Package Manager to run the demo scenes.

## What Is Included in Chroma?
