---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)"
permalink: /faqs/
excerpt: "Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)"
toc: false
---

#### Platform support
**Chroma** works on all target platforms supported by Unity.

---

#### What is the runtime performance?
There is no performance overhead for using **Chroma**. The shader attributes are compiled into the shader code and are not calculated at runtime (see [How Chroma works](https://chroma.dustyroom.com/#how-chroma-works)). The gradients and curves are baked into textures every time you edit them in the Unity Editor. The textures are then used at runtime, so there is no performance overhead for them either.

---

#### How to modify gradients and curves at runtime?
Unlike colors, numbers or vectors, the gradients and curves are baked into textures (see [How Chroma works](https://chroma.dustyroom.com/#how-chroma-works)), so unfortunately you can't change them at runtime.

However, often the same goal can be achieved without modifying the gradient directly. For example, you can:
- Have two or more gradients in one material, then blend between them at runtime using a float property. This can be done with a simple lerp in the shader code or with a [Blend node](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@16.0/manual/Blend-Node.html) in Shader Graph.
- Have multiple materials and switch between them at runtime. This can be done with a simple material swap ([Renderer.material](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Renderer-material.html)) or with a [MaterialPropertyBlock](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/MaterialPropertyBlock.html) in a script.
- Modify the sampling point of the gradient instead of the colors. This way you can shrink, expand or shift the gradient at runtime however you like.

---

#### Does Chroma support Amplify Shader Editor?
Yes, it does.

---

#### Unity version
Here are the requirements for the **Chroma** package:
* **[Built-in RP]**: Any version since **Unity 2019 LTS** is supported.
* **[URP]**: Requires version **10.0.0** or later, which corresponds to Unity version **2020.3.0 LTS** or higher.
* **[HDRP]**: Requires version **11.0.0** or later, which corresponds to Unity version **2021.2.0** or higher.
* **Demo scenes** are using **URP**. Please install it from the Package Manager to run the demo scenes.
* **[Shader Graph + Built-in RP + Unity 2020-2021]**. In this combination **Shader Graph** has [limited functionality](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@14.0/manual/Getting-Started.html) due to Unity's constraints. Chroma does fully support code shaders with Built-in RP in all Unity version and it does fully support Built-in RP + Shader Graph combination in Unity 2022 or later.

---

#### Is your question not answered here?
> Please [get it touch](https://chroma.dustyroom.com/contact-details/) if you have a question.
